Gov. Chris Christie's office said Monday that the nurse quarantined at a New Jersey hospital is being allowed to transfer to Maine, the latest development in a medical and political saga regarding possible cases of Ebola in the U.S., and how politicians in charge are responding.

A battle of words broke out during the weekend between Kaci Hickox, who returned home from Ebola-ravaged West Africa only to be ordered into quarantine, and the Republican governor. The nurse told CNN that her "basic human rights have been violated" and that Christie himself was responsible.

Hickox will be transported by a private carrier, "not via mass transit or commercial aircraft," read the statement, which was blasted out by Christie's office.
Quarantined nurse: Rights were violated
White House does not support quarantines
Doctor: Quarantines hurt Ebola aid
CDC: No quarantine for health care workers

Gov. Paul LePage said in a statement Maine will work with Hickox "to establish an in-home quarantine protocol to ensure there is no direct contact with other Mainers until the period for potential infection has passed."

Steven Hyman, an attorney for Hickox, told CNN's Alexandra Field her first priority is to get out of the hospital and back to a normal life.

Hyman argued "there is a legal basis to challenge" the New Jersey policy, but "whether she wants to do it remains to be seen."

While in Florida campaigning for Republican Gov. Rick Scott, Christie stood by New Jersey's quarantine policy.

"I know she didn't want to be there. No one ever wants to be in the hospital, I suspect, and so I understand that," he told reporters. "But the fact is I have a much greater, bigger responsibility to the people and the public, and so I think when she has time to reflect she will understand that as well."

Hickox was the first medical professional to be quarantined in New Jersey immediately upon returning to the United States from West Africa, where she had worked in treating Ebola patients.

She lashed out at Christie during the weekend for giving her a diagnosis of sorts as "obviously ill.